Docsite: update Migrating Ansible content to a different collection (#71854)
ansible/ansible: docs/docsite/rst/dev_guide/developing_collections.rst

First, look at `Ansible Collection Checklist <https://github.com/ansible-collections/overview/blob/main/collection_requirements.rst>`_.

To migrate content from one collection to another, if the collections are parts of `Ansible distribution <https://github.com/ansible-community/ansible-build-data/blob/main/2.10/ansible.in>`_:

#. Copy content from the source (old) collection to the target collection.

> #. Deprecate the module/plugin with ``removal_version`` scheduled for the next major version in ``meta/runtime.yml`` of the source collection. The deprecation must be released after the copied content has been released in the target collection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Deprecate the module/plugin with ``removal_version`` scheduled for the next major version in ``meta/runtime.yml`` of the source collection. The deprecation must be released after the copied content has been included in a release of the target collection.
```
I wonder if we have to make this even more precise: that it needs to be released in a version that will get included in the same Ansible z-stream than the collection where it's deprecated. The aim is to make sure that users can always make adjustments to avoid deprecation warnings.

Author: Done, we could merge this, if it's ok now. We could adjust the paragraph later.

First, look at `Ansible Collection Checklist <https://github.com/ansible-collections/overview/blob/main/collection_requirements.rst>`_.

> To migrate content from one collection to another, if the collections are parts of Ansible distribution:

Reviewer 2: Which is defined in https://github.com/ansible-community/ansible-build-data/blob/main/2.10/ansible.in

Author: good suggestion! added

  * add ``redirect`` to the corresponding entry in ``meta/runtime.yml``
  * remove ``removal_version`` from there

According to the above, you need to create at least three PRs as follows:

#. Create a PR against the target collection to copy the content.
#. Deprecate the module/plugin in the source collection.
#. Later create a PR against the source collection to remove the content according to the schedule.

Adding the content to the new collection
----------------------------------------

Create a PR in the new collection to:

#. Copy ALL the related files from the old collection.
#. If it is an action plugin, include the corresponding module with documentation.
#. If it is a module, check if it has a corresponding action plugin that should move with it.
#. Check ``meta/ `` for relevant updates to ``action_groups.yml`` and ``runtime.yml`` if they exist.
#. Carefully check the moved ``tests/integration`` and ``tests/units`` and update for FQCN.
#. Review ``tests/sanity/ignore-\*.txt`` entries in the old collection.
#. Update ``meta/runtime.yml`` in the old collection.

Removing the content from the old collection
--------------------------------------------

> Create a PR against the source collection repository to remove the modules, module_utils, plugins, and docs_fragments related to this migration:

Reviewer 2: Nice improvement, thank you.

First, look at `Ansible Collection Checklist <https://github.com/ansible-collections/overview/blob/main/collection_requirements.rst>`_.

To migrate content from one collection to another, if the collections are parts of `Ansible distribution <https://github.com/ansible-community/ansible-build-data/blob/main/2.10/ansible.in>`_:

#. Copy content from the source (old) collection to the target collection.

> #. Deprecate the module/plugin with ``removal_version`` scheduled for the next major version in ``meta/runtime.yml`` of the source collection. If the target collection has been released with the new content as a new minor version for the same major version that is currently included in Ansible, this ensures that users can resolve the deprecation warning without having to install something manually that potentially breaks backwards compatibility.

Reviewer: The deprecation should only be released once a compatible new version of the target collection has been released which contains the content.

Author: changed. PTAL

#. When the next major release comes:

  * remove the module/plugin from the source collection
  * add ``redirect`` to the corresponding entry in ``meta/runtime.yml``
  * remove ``removal_version`` from there

> Collections that are currently in Ansible distribution are listed in ``ANSIBLE_VERSION/ansible.in`` file of 

Reviewer: There's something missing at the end :)

Author: Oh, thanks. Initially I wanted to put this there. In short, it's in another place:)

According to the above, you need to create at least three PRs as follows:

#. Create a PR against the target collection to copy the content.
#. Deprecate the module/plugin in the source collection.
#. Later create a PR against the source collection to remove the content according to the schedule.

Adding the content to the new collection
----------------------------------------

Create a PR in the new collection to:

#. Copy ALL the related files from the old collection.
#. If it is an action plugin, include the corresponding module with documentation.
#. If it is a module, check if it has a corresponding action plugin that should move with it.

> #. Check ``meta/ `` for relevant updates to ``action_groups.yml`` and ``runtime.yml`` if they exist.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Check ``meta/ `` for relevant updates to ``runtime.yml`` if it exists.
```
action_groups.yml doesn't exist any longer.

Author: cool, fixed

#. Carefully check the moved ``tests/integration`` and ``tests/units`` and update for FQCN.

> #. Review ``tests/sanity/ignore-\*.txt`` entries in the old collection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Review ``tests/sanity/ignore-*.txt`` entries in the old collection.
```

Author: i guess it's escaping of sort:) fixed
